## 1. Introduction

Problem solving is a goal-based based agent system that finds sequence of actions that lead to desirable states from the initial state.

Four steps of problem solving are:

- **Goal Formulation**: Helps to organize behavior by isolating and representing the
task knowledge necessary to solve problem.
- **Problem Formulation**: Define the problem precisely with initial states, final state
and acceptable solutions.
- **Searching**: Find the most appropriate techniques o sequence among all possible
techniques.
- **Execution**: Once the search algorithm returns a solution to the problem, the
solution is then executed by the agent.

## 2. State Space Representation

A state space essentially consists of a set of nodes representing each state of the problem, arcs between nodes representing the legal moves from one state to another, an initial state and a goal state.

A problem can be defined by
- Initial state
- Actions (Using successor function)
- Goal test (to determine the goal state)
- Path cost
A problem is when defined with these components is called well defined problem.

## 3. Production System

A production system consists of a set of rules, each consisting of a left hand side
(pattern) that determines the applicability of rules and a right side that describes the
operation to be performed if the rule is applied.

Pattern ⇒ Action(Operation)

## 4. Constraints Satisfaction Problem

A **Constraint Satisfaction Problem** is a mathematical problem where the solution must meet a number of constraints

### Crypt-Arithmetic Problem

Cryptarithmetic problems are a type of mathematical puzzle where digits are replaced by letters or symbols. The goal is to find a unique digit for each letter so that the arithmetic equation holds true.

**Rules of Crypt-arithmetic Problems**

- Each letter must represent a unique digit from 0 to 9.
- No two letters can represent the same digit.
- The equation must satisfy standard arithmetic rules (e.g., 2 + 2 = 4).
- The result of the operation must be correct based on the assigned digits.
- Only one carry is allowed during addition.
- The problem can be approached from either the left-hand side (L.H.S) or right-hand side (R.H.S) of the equation.
- First letter must be non-zero
